---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Introduction
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-112-02
labels:
  - MIS
---

Checkpoint A:
Describe your design for your site's shopping cart. That is, will it be a separate page that the user can view and edit, or will it be integrated into the product pages? If so, describe in detail how this will work on your site. Provide several examples of using the cart.

At first, I have started with my shopping cart integrated into the products page. For assignment3 I will be creating a separate page that the user can view and edit. When the first page is loaded, the user can choose items and modify the quantities they want, then those quantities will be carried over when they login or register and then be directed to a separate page with the quantities they selected from the first page and modify their cart again if they want to before moving on to the final invoice page.
 
 
Checkpoint B:
Explain specifically how you will use sessions to manage your shopping cart. In particular, what shopping cart data will be stored in the session, what data format will be used (NOT what data type, but the format like with the data format used for your registration data). Use code examples showing what data structures (such as arrays and their keys) you will use to manage the shopping cart data and how they will be used in $_SESSION.

I am still trying to figure out how to use sessions and cookies. Hopefully when we finish Lab15 I can fully understand the concept and be ready to use it in Assignment 3.
 
Checkpoint C:
How will you avoid access to your application when the user has not logged in or registered? What are the particular security concerns you must address?

By checking the cookie and making sure that the password from the user matches on the server before sending the user to the next page to modify their cart and proceed to invoice.
 
Checkpoint D:
Upon a successful login, how do you provide personalization in your UI? Explain how you did or will do this (paste code if necessary):

To provide personalization upon a successful login, the username of user will be displayed on the products page as well as the final invoice. 
 
Checkpoint E:
If you are working with partners, how will you split up the work in your team so that you are working in parallel as effectively as possible? That is, who is doing what and when?

I am not working with a partner.

 
Checkpoint F:
How are you approaching Assignment 3 differently than Assignment 2?

I am approaching Assignment 3 differently than Assignment 2 by commenting my code properly to understand the process and what the code does. I am taking more time to create a better UI that is more appealing to the user if I have time. I think that Assignment 3 is harder for me now than user registration and an integrated products page because I find myself reading about sessions and cookies more and more. I always find myself wanting to start from scratch but can’t seem to find the time to try and re-write my code with better variable names, so it is frustrating.
