---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E5
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-11-26
labels:
  - E5
  - MIS
---
1.	Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details
<br><p>Assignment 2 was on the use of file systems to direct the users to and from where they needed to go. I had to build a user registration and login page with access to the particular file path for each page. For example, if a user needs to login, they can do so and be directed to completing their purchase. But if the user needed to register, they are directed to registration and once they register their name and password would be saved, so next time they can login. Coding on the server was the primary source of directing each user.
2.	What did you learn from this assignment?
<br><p>From this particular assignment I learned how to send and request responses from the server. Never would I have thought that a server would be needed to interact with a webpage. But I realized that the most important use of the server is to dynamically change the webpage when a user needs information. For example, logging in, a response is sent to the server to grab the user’s info and verify before loading or letting the user advance to the next page. 
3.	Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).
<br><p>I did not work with a partner. So, I contributed 100% to the assignment with the help of cited sources in my code.
4.	How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?
<br><p>When I needed help, I just googled it. I would watch videos, read forums and tutorials. The biggest problem I needed help with was the storing of user information and then accessing that stored user information when a user has logged out, but then wants to log back in.  Another issue that tied in with that problem is storing a new user that has just registered and keep that information stored when the user needs to login.
5.	How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?
<br><p>Developing this assignment was much harder than assignment #1. There were definitely a lot of moving parts to consider. I feel that it was much harder for me to be completely on top of the CSS for this assignment because figuring out how to work something out took me longer because I think that being a beginner in coding, it was hard for me to. Know what I needed or terms I needed to use when looking for help.
6.	Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging
<br><p>Honestly, I spent at least 2-3 hours when thinking about how to do something and this included time away from my computer. As for writing the code, I would start off with the basics and always console.log everything before I moved on to the next step. Writing code took about 30 minutes. As for testing and debugging, it was another 1-2 hours because sometimes the code would stop working or only do half of what I needed it to do.
7.	Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?
<br><p>The thing that worked very well with this project is learning the server-side system processing better than I did when I started learning it. Working on assignment 2 helped me learn more about file systems and servers on my own time, which was greatly needed. The thing that did not work well was the time needed to research and apply better code or cleaning up my code to be more presentable.
8.	If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?
<br><p>If I could go back in time, one thing I would do differently is plan or draw out the steps I needed to do. I believe that I spent too much leisure time thinking about coding and that one way I can spend less time worrying about coding is creating a plan. I wish that I did not jump right into the project without a plan because from the looks of my project, I spent the bare minimum trying to make it look nice. But, drawing out the sequence of events would had definitely helped me stay on track because I definitely kept switching up how and why I changed a perfectly good code because I thought I did or did not need it in some cases. Also, most importantly always push your code to GitHub after you have successfully written a good piece of code or like the styling of your CSS. I would go back in time and put a reminder to always push to GitHub, no matter how small the code is because it will save you time and frustration if you accidently delete something. 
