---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E4 - My Progress in Programming Report
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-11-09

---

1.	My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways like constructing better functions that work with arrays, creating a JSON file with my products listed, creating my own server and learn how to use a server. For a first-time programmer I have learned a lot from how to create a webpage to even semi-designing one.
2.	I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills like the order and structure of writing my code that makes sense. I feel that sometimes I may start coding and when I realize I missed a section or part that is needed I tend to place it towards the end of the code when it should be at the beginning or middle. I should utilize pseudo-code more often to make sure I go through the moving parts instead of skipping them.
3.	I can do the WODs without looking at the screencast solutions first. This statement for me is dependent on what I’m learning next. For example, if the WOD is functions after we have covered arrays, it is simple enough to look at the readings and build off from the last lab of arrays. But personally, I always feel that WODs at first (maybe even the second or third time) should be done or tried before attempting to look at the screencast solutions. For a WOD that is a totally new subject like learning to create a server, I would have to watch the screencast first if there was not enough readings or other resources available for me to completely understand how to do the WOD.
4.	The labs have helped me to learn and I am able to complete them with confidence. This statement is very true for me because I have never taken a coding class before. Following along with the teacher and my peers can put a lot of what I learn from the labs into a different perspective, for example if one person is stuck or doesn’t understand something, we all can help each other out or try to ask the teacher for a different meaning of what he is trying to do. Referring back to the class recordings can also be helpful in completing the labs with confidence because if there is something I don’t understand, but majority of the class does, I can take the time to watch the recording again and figure it out myself.
5.	I feel ready I am ready to work on the next stage of complexity in programming (building small web applications like Assignment 1). I feel that I am ready to take the next steps. There are a few things that I do need to try and become more proficient in. I feel that there are some areas that I have been lacking in confidence to do more of like the creations of servers and understanding in depth of how to use it naturally like I do with loops and arrays. But it may be that I am overthinking most of the code I do when it never works out the way I need it to.
6.	I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways like the creation of study groups or a TA. I feel that some questions are often to “minimal” to go over in class as clarification because there is such a short amount of time to even go over it. Though I know there are a lot of constraints right now, referring to outside resources on a more in-depth explanation is a great way to find answers. It may be time-consuming, but it is needed if you want to keep up in class.
7.	These are things that work really well for my learning in this class like attending every session. I feel that being present and following along is very important, even if you don’t know the answer. Though it is hard to keep up and retain all the information in such a short period of time, it is good practice to keep an empty browser open of the material going on that day to be prepared.

