---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E1 - UI Basics Technical Blog
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-09-14
labels:
  - WOD
  - MIS
---
<p>WOD1</p>
When I first began BrowserHistory1, I did not know how to code at all, and the readings beforehand were honestly a foreign language to me. It took me about 8 attempts before I could complete BrowserHistory1 in about 15 min. I want to emphasize the importance of the readings before doing BrowserHistroy1, because if you jump right into the WOD, you would not have the slightest idea where to start if you are like me and have never worked with html or coded before. I started my first BrowserHistory1 and tried to go through every step meticulously because I didn’t want to miss anything. I have heard that even a mis-placed comma or period can ruin the entire output of what your trying to write. In my first attempt it took me 45 minutes to complete and I did not take any breaks. I realized I had to keep referencing back to the readings because after I typed in what I needed, I still wanted to try and learn what a specific code or tag meant. I started my second attempt and finished it in 34 minutes. I felt that as I continued to re-do the WOD, I began to register what the certain codes or tags meant, and I did not have to reference back to the readings for help. After the second attempt I watched the screencast for any tips or tricks to cut down my time. I have found copy and pasting helped a lot, and I am not referring to the screencast but from the assignment itself.

<br>My advice is always do the readings before you start the WOD, if there are any, because it will help you with where to start if all this is new to you. Keeping track of time did pressure me to try and copy and paste everything, but if you really want to learn just let the timer run for the first couple attempts at the WOD so you know where you are at and can work on the parts that take longer. In my opinion you should not watch the screencast before you do the readings or have not even attempted the work on the WOD because it won’t help you find your own way of how retain information. Also, doing the WOD multiple times is helpful to exercise and know how a certain tag or code fits without referencing back to it in the reading. Lastly, VS code Intellisense is very helpful, maybe too helpful, Intellisense helped with the options of what I needed. But don’t heavily rely on the help of Intellisense in VS code because it makes it harder to know what you need and to understand why you need a certain type of code.


<p>WOD2</p>
I completed BrowserHistory2 on my fifth attempt in 8 minutes. For this WOD, it was mostly how to create different fonts, size the margins and use colors. The most difficult task was the link to the different kinds of fonts on the google font sheet. I tried to type the link to google fonts manually but figured that it took up way too much time when I could copy and paste from the referenced reading. Everything after that became more familiar as I knew how to do most of the tags in the stylesheet and then link to the html. I watched the screencast after my fourth attempt of trying to figure out how to exactly type the google font link in html.

<br>My advice is that some links are premade to help link you specifically to the desired location, which in this case was the google font sheets. Watching the screencast is always helpful but only after you attempt to do the WOD beforehand. This WOD was a bit easier than the first WOD to complete because it was more focused on the styling of the page rather than constructing it.

<p>WOD3</p>
For BrowserHistory3 I successfully finished it in 7 minutes on my third attempt. This was the easiest WOD out of all 3 because I was familiar with the margins and paddings. I think for WOD3, if you did not carefully read the difference about margins and paddings are then it will be slightly harder to create a cleaner page for this WOD. After my first attempt, I watched the screencast to learn how to undo the list-style-type which was the only thing I was stuck on. I completed WOD3 on my second attempt at 10 minutes but wanted to try go for under 10 minutes. So, my third attempt I had completed the WOD at 7 minutes and was very satisfied with the quality of my work. My advice when you are doing WOD3 is to aim for the “as prescribed” time, even if you have multiple attempts.  

<p>Invoice1 WOD</p>
For the [Invoice1](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-preparing-for-WOD.html) WOD, it was more challenging than the previous WODs. For Invoice1 I had to create a sales receipt and display it on a browser. It took me 9 tries before I could master this WOD in about 17 minutes. To prepare for this WOD, I did all the required readings first. I had watched the screencast on my third try. The hardest obstacle was remembering when to use backticks, so the code is not hard coded. 

For this WOD I did do a lot of copy and pasting to reduce my time, rather than just manually writing the same code that just needed a different number at the end. Though at first, I did manually type the code out to understand the logic behind what that certain line of code was meant to do. Then, I started copying and pasting the same line I needed “x” amount of times and changed the number at the end. Copy and paste was a huge help, which I highly recommend after manually typing the code out until you understand it. Again, the obstacle I spent most of my time was on backticks. I had trouble with the placement of backticks and had to refer to the screencast multiple times for help. At one point I was too comfortable using backticks that I started using it at the end of the assignment when it asked to simply display the total, sub-total and sales tax, and the backticks were not needed at all.

One thing I could have done differently to prepare for this WOD is to do more examples of backtick code. I would have tried to find more exercises relatable to this WOD so it would have been easier to understand when and why I needed the backtick in a certain code line. For the next WOD I will definitely try out exercises of code that I second guess on for placement. I feel relatable exercises can improve my understanding of what code needs what.  

