---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Assignment 3 Blog
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-12-18
labels:
  - MIS
---

1.	What was accomplished in the project as compared to what was planned?
The major accomplishments in the project that I have completed with confidence are the four major assignment requirements.  
i.	Temporarily storing and displaying a user's information from transactions while logged in (“shopping cart”)
ii.	Having multiple pages (prod/service, home page, login, reg)
iii.	Sending an email to users about their transactions
iv.	State (of user as appropriate to site)
Though originally, designing and styling the website was to go hand in hand as I created code. Unfortunately, debugging and writing the code was much more time consuming than I had originally planned for. For example, personalizing each page to the user logged in displayed on every page had taken me roughly three days to figure out on my own, with the help of googling.
2.	Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?
The most notable shortcoming is the syling/css of my webpage. I feel that even though I like the web design to be very basic it does not sell as a real webstore. I did focus much more of my time to coding and linking files correctly that I found it harder to style around certain pieces of code without breaking it.
3.      Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?
 	My biggest project risk was replacing all my files with an ejs template. This was my biggest risk because I literally just learned about ejs templating one week before assignment 3 was due. But I felt that using ejs was more efficient and effective than the previous work I had already done in assignment 2. But I managed the transition very well because I had decided from the beginning that I had wanted to start assignment 3 from scratch again. I wanted to start from scratch to use a clean slate and not worry about the zombie code, bugs or poor css from my assignment 2. It did take a while to learn and get used to ejs syntax, but it worked overall for me better in assignment 3 than it did in assignment 2. I know it was a big risk to transition my files to ejs, but to my advantage I had the time to study and learn ejs templating. If time was not an option I would not have even considered using ejs at all.
4.         What is your assessment of the overall quality of the system?
If I had to scale the overall quality of my system on a scale from 1-10, 10 being the best, I would rate the system an 8. I believe for the most part the functionality of my system runs smoothly, but I did forget to run validations for the name, email and username. I forgot to add these validations.
<br><br>5.         What is needed before this system can be placed into operation?
The system is fully operational, just without the validations for the registration page. Other than that, the system is functional.
<br><br>6.         Describe what you are most proud of about this project:
The one thing I am most proud about this project is the different approach I had taken by utilizing the ejs template. I feel that with everything I have learned combined with learning ejs templating is also a personal accomplishment for me. I am proud that I could learn and use something that is easy and fit my needs for this project.
<br><br>7.         Describe what you are least happy with this project:
The one thing I was least happy with this project is the design/css of my website. I feel that if I had more time or had started at the beginning of the semester, I would have created an ecommerce site that looked legit. I was going for simplicity and basic styling for my web design, but could have played around with the color or added some images to look more like a real website you would be sure that you can buy from.
 
8.         Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. "I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization"):
I worked on this assignment 100% by myself. Though, I did reach out to Professor Port about the use of ejs. By the time I received a response back I have completed 80% of my project on ejs and decided to follow through with the assignment with same template. I would like to add that 25% of my code was taken and modified from WODS or labs that we have done in class and 75% was code from googling
