---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E3 - Performing WODs Techinical Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-09-14
labels:
  - WOD
  - MIS
---
<p><b>Invoice1 WOD</b></p>
For the [Invoice1](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-preparing-for-WOD.html) WOD, it was more challenging than the previous WODs. For Invoice1 I had to create a sales receipt and display it on a browser. It took me 9 tries before I could master this WOD in about 17 minutes. To prepare for this WOD, I did all the required readings first. I had watched the screencast on my third try. The hardest obstacle was remembering when to use backticks, so the code is not hard coded. 

For this WOD I did do a lot of copy and pasting to reduce my time, rather than just manually writing the same code that just needed a different number at the end. Though at first, I did manually type the code out to understand the logic behind what that certain line of code was meant to do. Then, I started copying and pasting the same line I needed “x” amount of times and changed the number at the end. Copy and paste was a huge help, which I highly recommend <b>after</b> manually typing the code out until you understand it. Again, the obstacle I spent most of my time was on backticks. I had trouble with the placement of backticks and had to refer to the screencast multiple times for help. At one point I was too comfortable using backticks that I started using it at the end of the assignment when it asked to simply display the total, sub-total and sales tax, where which the backticks were not needed at all.

One thing I could have done differently to prepare for this WOD is to do more examples of backtick code. I would have tried to find more exercises relatable to this WOD so it would have been easier to understand when and why I needed the backtick in a certain code line. For the next WOD I will definitely try out exercises of code that I second guess on for placement. I feel relatable exercises can improve my understanding of what code needs what.  
